doc/devdocs/ast.rst, before:

*******************
Julia ASTs
*******************

.. currentmodule:: Base

Julia has two representations of code. First there is a surface syntax AST returned
by the parser (e.g. the :func:`parse` function), and manipulated by macros.
It is a structured representation of code as it is written,
constructed by ``julia-parser.scm`` from a character stream.
Next there is a lowered form, or IR (intermediate representation), which is used by
type inference and code generation.
In the lowered form there are fewer types of nodes, all macros
are expanded, and all control flow is converted to explicit branches and sequences
of statements. The lowered form is constructed by ``julia-syntax.scm``.

First we will focus on the lowered form, since it is more important to the
compiler. It is also less obvious to the human, since it results from a
significant rearrangement of the input syntax.


Lowered form
------------

The following data types exist in lowered form:

``Expr``
    has a node type indicated by the ``head`` field, and an ``args`` field
    which is a ``Vector{Any}`` of subexpressions.

``Slot``
    identifies arguments and local variables by consecutive numbering.
    ``Slot`` is an abstract type with subtypes ``SlotNumber`` and ``TypedSlot``.
    Both types have an integer-valued ``id`` field giving the slot index.
    Most slots have the same type at all uses, and so are represented with
    ``SlotNumber``. The types of these slots are found in the ``slottypes``
    field of their ``MethodInstance`` object.
    Slots that require per-use type annotations are represented with
    ``TypedSlot``, which has a ``typ`` field.

``CodeInfo``
    wraps the IR of a method.

``LineNumberNode``
    contains a single number, specifying the line number the next statement
    came from.

``LabelNode``
    branch target, a consecutively-numbered integer starting at 0

``GotoNode``
    unconditional branch

``QuoteNode``
    wraps an arbitrary value to reference as data. For example, the function
    ``f() = :a`` contains a ``QuoteNode`` whose ``value`` field is the symbol
    ``a``, in order to return the symbol itself instead of evaluating it.

``GlobalRef``
    refers to global variable ``name`` in module ``mod``

``SSAValue``
    refers to a consecutively-numbered (starting at 0) static single assignment
    (SSA) variable inserted by the compiler.

``NewvarNode``
    Marks a point where a variable is created. This has the effect of resetting a
    variable to undefined.


Expr types
~~~~~~~~~~

These symbols appear in the ``head`` field of ``Expr``\s in lowered form.

``call``
    function call (dynamic dispatch). ``args[1]`` is the function to call,
    ``args[2:end]`` are the arguments.

``invoke``
    function call (static dispatch). ``args[1]`` is the MethodInstance to call,
    ``args[2:end]`` are the arguments (including the function that is being called, at ``args[2]``).

``static_parameter``
    reference a static parameter by index.

``line``
    line number and file name metadata. Unlike a ``LineNumberNode``, can also
    contain a file name.

``gotoifnot``
    conditional branch. If ``args[1]`` is false, goes to label identified in ``args[2]``.

``=``
    assignment

``method``
    adds a method to a generic function and assigns the result if necessary.

    Has a 1-argument form and a 4-argument form. The 1-argument form arises
    from the syntax ``function foo end``. In the 1-argument form, the
    argument is a symbol. If this symbol already names a function in the
    current scope, nothing happens. If the symbol is undefined, a new function
    is created and assigned to the identifier specified by the symbol.
    If the symbol is defined but names a non-function, an error is raised.
    The definition of "names a function" is that the binding is constant, and
    refers to an object of singleton type. The rationale for this is that an
    instance of a singleton type uniquely identifies the type to add the method
    to. When the type has fields, it wouldn't be clear whether the method was
    being added to the instance or its type.

    The 4-argument form has the following arguments:
    ``args[1]`` - A function name, or ``false`` if unknown. If a symbol,
    then the expression first behaves like the 1-argument form above.
    This argument is ignored from then on.
    When this is ``false``, it means a method is being added strictly by type,
    ``(::T)(x) = x``.

    ``args[2]`` - a ``SimpleVector`` of argument type data. ``args[2][1]`` is
    a ``SimpleVector`` of the argument types, and ``args[2][2]`` is a
    ``SimpleVector`` of type variables corresponding to the method's static
    parameters.

    ``args[3]`` - a ``CodeInfo`` of the method itself. For "out of scope"
    method definitions (adding a method to a function that also has methods defined
    in different scopes) this is an expression that evaluates to a ``:lambda``
    expression.

    ``args[4]`` - ``true`` or ``false``, identifying whether the method is
    staged (``@generated function``)

``const``
    declares a (global) variable as constant

``null``
    has no arguments; simply yields the value ``nothing``

``new``
    allocates a new struct-like object. First argument is the type. The ``new``
    pseudo-function is lowered to this, and the type is always inserted by the
    compiler.  This is very much an internal-only feature, and does no
    checking. Evaluating arbitrary ``new`` expressions can easily segfault.

``return``
    returns its argument as the value of the enclosing function.

``the_exception``
    yields the caught exception inside a ``catch`` block. This is the value of
    the run time system variable ``jl_exception_in_transit``.

``enter``
    enters an exception handler (``setjmp``). ``args[1]`` is the label of the
    catch block to jump to on error.

``leave``
    pop exception handlers. ``args[1]`` is the number of handlers to pop.

``inbounds``
    controls turning bounds checks on or off. A stack is maintained; if the
    first argument of this expression is true or false (``true`` means bounds
    checks are disabled), it is pushed onto the stack. If the first argument is
    ``:pop``, the stack is popped.

``boundscheck``
    indicates the beginning or end of a section of code that performs a bounds
    check. Like ``inbounds``, a stack is maintained, and the second argument
    can be one of: ``true``, ``false``, or ``:pop``.

``copyast``
    part of the implementation of quasi-quote. The argument is a surface syntax
    AST that is simply copied recursively and returned at run time.

``meta``
    metadata. ``args[1]`` is typically a symbol specifying the kind of metadata,
    and the rest of the arguments are free-form. The following kinds of metadata
    are commonly used:

    ``:inline`` and ``:noinline``: Inlining hints.

    ``:push_loc``: enters a sequence of statements from a specified source location.
      - ``args[2]`` specifies a filename, as a symbol.
      - ``args[3]`` optionally specifies the name of an (inlined) function that originally contained the code.

    ``:pop_loc``: returns to the source location before the matching ``:push_loc``.


Method
~~~~~~

A unique'd container describing the shared metadata for a single (unspecialized) method.

``name``, ``module``, ``file``, ``line``, ``sig`` - Metadata to uniquely identify the method
    for the computer and the human

``ambig`` - Cache of other methods that may be ambiguous with this one

``specializations`` - Cache of all MethodInstance ever created for this Method,
    used to ensure uniqueness. Uniqueness is required for efficiency,
    especially for incremental precompile and tracking of method invalidation.

``source`` - The original source code (compressed)

``roots`` - Pointers to non-AST things that have been interpolated into the AST,
    required by compression of the AST, type-inference, or the generation of native code.

``nargs``, ``isva``, ``called``, ``isstaged`` - Descriptive bit-fields for the source code of this Method.


MethodInstance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A unique'd container describing a single callable signature for a Method.
See especially :ref:`devdocs-locks` for important details on how to modify these fields safely.

``specTypes`` - The primary key for this MethodInstance.
    Uniqueness is guaranteed through a ``def.specializations`` lookup.

``def`` - The ``Method`` that this function describes a specialization of.
    Or ``#undef``, if this is a top-level Lambda that is not part of a Method.

``sparam_vals`` - The values of the static parameters in specTypes
    indexed by ``def.sparam_syms``. For the ``MethodInstance`` at ``Method.unspecialized``,
    this is the empty ``SimpleVector``. But for a runtime ``MethodInstance`` from the ``MethodTable`` cache,
    this will always be defined and indexable.

``rettype`` - The inferred return type for the ``specFunctionObject`` field,
    which (in most cases) is also the computed return type for the function in general.

``inferred`` - May contain a cache of the inferred source for this function,
    or other information about the inference result such as a constant return value
    may be put here (if ``jlcall_api == 2``), or it could be set to `nothing`
    to just indicate ``rettype`` is inferred

``ftpr`` - The generic jlcall entry point

``jlcall_api`` - The ABI to use when calling ``fptr``. Some significant ones include:
    - 0 - not compiled yet
    - 1 - JL_CALLABLE ``jl_value_t *(*)(jl_function_t *f, jl_value_t *args[nargs], uint32_t nargs)``
    - 2 - constant (stored in ``inferred``)


CodeInfo
~~~~~~~~

A temporary container for holding lowered source code.

``code`` - An ``Any`` array of statements, or a UInt8 array with a compressed representation of the code.

``slotnames`` - An array of symbols giving the name of each slot (argument or local variable).

``slottypes`` - An array of types for the slots.

``slotflags`` - A UInt8 array of slot properties, represented as bit flags:
    - 2  - assigned (only false if there are *no* assignment statements with this var on the left)
    - 8  - const (currently unused for local variables)
    - 16 - statically assigned once
    - 32 - might be used before assigned. This flag is only valid after type inference.

``ssavaluetypes`` - Either an array or an Int.
  If an Int, it gives the number of compiler-inserted temporary locations in the function.
  If an array, specifies a type for each location.

Boolean properties:

``inferred`` - Whether this has been produced by type inference

``inlineable`` - Whether this should be inlined

``propagate_inbounds`` - Whether this should should propagate ``@inbounds`` when inlined
    for the purpose of eliding ``@boundscheck`` blocks

``pure`` - Whether this is known to be a pure function of its arguments,
    without respect to the state of the method caches or other mutable global state


Surface syntax AST
------------------

Front end ASTs consist entirely of ``Expr``\ s and atoms (e.g. symbols, numbers).
There is generally a different expression head for each visually distinct
syntactic form.
Examples will be given in s-expression syntax. Each parenthesized list corresponds
to an Expr, where the first element is the head.
For example ``(call f x)`` corresponds to ``Expr(:call, :f, :x)`` in Julia.

Calls
~~~~~

=======================  ====================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ====================================
``f(x)``                 ``(call f x)``
``f(x, y=1, z=2)``       ``(call f x (kw y 1) (kw z 2))``
``f(x; y=1)``            ``(call f (parameters (kw y 1)) x)``
``f(x...)``              ``(call f (... x))``
=======================  ====================================

``do`` syntax::

    f(x) do a,b
        body
    end

parses as ``(call f (-> (tuple a b) (block body)) x)``.

Operators
~~~~~~~~~

Most uses of operators are just function calls, so they are parsed with the
head ``call``.
However some operators are special forms (not necessarily function calls),
and in those cases the operator itself is the expression head.
In julia-parser.scm these are referred to as "syntactic operators".
Some operators (``+`` and ``*``) use N-ary parsing; chained calls are parsed as
a single N-argument call.
Finally, chains of comparisons have their own special expression structure.

=======================  ====================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ====================================
``x+y``                  ``(call + x y)``
``a+b+c+d``              ``(call + a b c d)``
``2x``                   ``(call * 2 x)``
``a&&b``                 ``(&& a b)``
``x += 1``               ``(+= x 1)``
``a ? 1 : 2``            ``(if a 1 2)``
``a:b``                  ``(: a b)``
``a:b:c``                ``(: a b c)``
``a,b``                  ``(tuple a b)``
``a==b``                 ``(call == a b)``
``1<i<=n``               ``(comparison 1 < i <= n)``
``a.b``                  ``(. a (quote b))``
``a.(b)``                ``(. a b)``
=======================  ====================================

Bracketed forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

==========================  ======================================
Input                       AST
==========================  ======================================
``a[i]``                    ``(ref a i)``
``t[i;j]``                  ``(typed_vcat t i j)``
``t[i j]``                  ``(typed_hcat t i j)``
``t[a b; c d]``             ``(typed_vcat t (row a b) (row c d))``
``a{b}``                    ``(curly a b)``
``a{b;c}``                  ``(curly a (parameters c) b)``
``[x]``                     ``(vect x)``
``[x,y]``                   ``(vect x y)``
``[x;y]``                   ``(vcat x y)``
``[x y]``                   ``(hcat x y)``
``[x y; z t]``              ``(vcat (row x y) (row z t))``
``[x for y in z, a in b]``  ``(comprehension x (= y z) (= a b))``
``T[x for y in z]``         ``(typed_comprehension T x (= y z))``
``(a, b, c)``               ``(tuple a b c)``
``(a; b; c)``               ``(block a (block b c))``
==========================  ======================================

Macros
~~~~~~

=======================  =======================================
Input                    AST
=======================  =======================================
``@m x y``               ``(macrocall @m x y)``
``Base.@m x y``          ``(macrocall (. Base (quote @m)) x y)``
``@Base.m x y``          ``(macrocall (. Base (quote @m)) x y)``
=======================  =======================================

Strings
~~~~~~~

=======================  ====================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ====================================
``"a"``                  ``"a"``
``x"y"``                 ``(macrocall @x_str "y")``
``x"y"z``                ``(macrocall @x_str "y" "z")``
``"x = $x"``             ``(string "x = " x)``
```a b c```              ``(macrocall @cmd "a b c")``
``x ~ distr``            ``(macrocall @~ x distr)``
=======================  ====================================

Doc string syntax::

    "some docs"
    f(x) = x

parses as ``(macrocall (|.| Core '@doc) "some docs" (= (call f x) (block x)))``.

Imports and such
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

=======================  ==============================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ==============================================
``import a``             ``(import a)``
``import a.b.c``         ``(import a b c)``
``import ...a``          ``(import . . . a)``
``import a.b, c.d``      ``(toplevel (import a b) (import c d))``
``import Base: x``       ``(import Base x)``
``import Base: x, y``    ``(toplevel (import Base x) (import Base y))``
``export a, b``          ``(export a b)``
=======================  ==============================================

Numbers
~~~~~~~

Julia supports more number types than many scheme implementations,
so not all numbers are represented directly as scheme numbers in the AST.

=========================  ==================================================
Input                      AST
=========================  ==================================================
``11111111111111111111``   ``(macrocall @int128_str "11111111111111111111")``
``0xfffffffffffffffff``    ``(macrocall @uint128_str "0xfffffffffffffffff")``
``1111...many digits...``  ``(macrocall @big_str "1111....")``
=========================  ==================================================

Block forms
~~~~~~~~~~~

A block of statements is parsed as ``(block stmt1 stmt2 ...)``.

If statement::

    if a
        b
    elseif c
        d
    else e
        f
    end

parses as::

    (if a (block (line 2) b)
        (block (line 3) (if c (block (line 4) d)
                            (block (line 5) e (line 6) f))))

A ``while`` loop parses as ``(while condition body)``.

A ``for`` loop parses as ``(for (= var iter) body)``.
If there is more than one iteration specification, they are parsed as a block:
``(for (block (= v1 iter1) (= v2 iter2)) body)``.

``break`` and ``continue`` are parsed as 0-argument expressions
``(break)`` and ``(continue)``.

``let`` is parsed as ``(let body (= var1 val1) (= var2 val2) ...)``.

A basic function definition is parsed as ``(function (call f x) body)``.
A more complex example::

    function f{T}(x::T; k = 1)
        return x+1
    end

parses as::

    (function (call (curly f T) (parameters (kw k 1))
                    (:: x T))
              (block (line 2 file.jl) (return (call + x 1))))

Type definition::

    type Foo{T<:S}
        x::T
    end

parses as::

    (type #t (curly Foo (<: T S))
          (block (line 2 none) (:: x T)))

The first argument is a boolean telling whether the type is mutable.

``try`` blocks parse as ``(try try_block var catch_block finally_block)``.
If no variable is present after ``catch``, ``var`` is ``#f``.
If there is no ``finally`` clause, then the last argument is not present.

Commit message:

this fixes #265, mostly
adds a world counter
and threads it everywhere
and tracks all backedges
add tests for some versions of #265
also updates the compile test to be world-aware
and add docs for method replacement / world age

note that MethodTables need to Base.serialized in a world-aware manner

and MethodError needs to be world aware

the age in MethodInstance is a copy of the value returned by typemap lookup
since we don't currently have a mechanism for accessing that value directly
plus, this seems easier anyways

handle MethodInstance age range updates correctly means
only updating them in-place when that doesn't potentially invalidate other
consumers that might also be holding a reference to it
and propagate this through the callers to type-inference

virtual edges are tracked via exact signature tuple types

inference is pure for backedges meaning that
we only add backedges that exist at the end of inference
and then add them to the correct MethodInstance object
which also make codegen caching world-aware

min/max validity of ml-matches results is threaded out of jl_matching_methods into inference
  eventually should probably switch this to use a Ref,
  or return the value, or something similarly more efficient than a
  singleton Array, but currently refpointer.jl is not part of Core.Inference

incremental deserialize is aware of world counter logic
by handling the follow cases:
 - "free-standing" methods (where age is at the default of 0), probably from a toplevel thunk or deserialize
 - garbage methods (really we just want to delete these, but, oh well). this is something inferred to have been replaced
 - applicable methods (this is the overwhelming majority of cases)
the logic between TypeMapEntry, Method, and MethodInstance all agree on these concepts

doc/devdocs/ast.rst, after:

*******************
Julia ASTs
*******************

.. currentmodule:: Base

Julia has two representations of code. First there is a surface syntax AST returned
by the parser (e.g. the :func:`parse` function), and manipulated by macros.
It is a structured representation of code as it is written,
constructed by ``julia-parser.scm`` from a character stream.
Next there is a lowered form, or IR (intermediate representation), which is used by
type inference and code generation.
In the lowered form there are fewer types of nodes, all macros
are expanded, and all control flow is converted to explicit branches and sequences
of statements. The lowered form is constructed by ``julia-syntax.scm``.

First we will focus on the lowered form, since it is more important to the
compiler. It is also less obvious to the human, since it results from a
significant rearrangement of the input syntax.


Lowered form
------------

The following data types exist in lowered form:

``Expr``
    has a node type indicated by the ``head`` field, and an ``args`` field
    which is a ``Vector{Any}`` of subexpressions.

``Slot``
    identifies arguments and local variables by consecutive numbering.
    ``Slot`` is an abstract type with subtypes ``SlotNumber`` and ``TypedSlot``.
    Both types have an integer-valued ``id`` field giving the slot index.
    Most slots have the same type at all uses, and so are represented with
    ``SlotNumber``. The types of these slots are found in the ``slottypes``
    field of their ``MethodInstance`` object.
    Slots that require per-use type annotations are represented with
    ``TypedSlot``, which has a ``typ`` field.

``CodeInfo``
    wraps the IR of a method.

``LineNumberNode``
    contains a single number, specifying the line number the next statement
    came from.

``LabelNode``
    branch target, a consecutively-numbered integer starting at 0

``GotoNode``
    unconditional branch

``QuoteNode``
    wraps an arbitrary value to reference as data. For example, the function
    ``f() = :a`` contains a ``QuoteNode`` whose ``value`` field is the symbol
    ``a``, in order to return the symbol itself instead of evaluating it.

``GlobalRef``
    refers to global variable ``name`` in module ``mod``

``SSAValue``
    refers to a consecutively-numbered (starting at 0) static single assignment
    (SSA) variable inserted by the compiler.

``NewvarNode``
    Marks a point where a variable is created. This has the effect of resetting a
    variable to undefined.


Expr types
~~~~~~~~~~

These symbols appear in the ``head`` field of ``Expr``\s in lowered form.

``call``
    function call (dynamic dispatch). ``args[1]`` is the function to call,
    ``args[2:end]`` are the arguments.

``invoke``
    function call (static dispatch). ``args[1]`` is the MethodInstance to call,
    ``args[2:end]`` are the arguments (including the function that is being called, at ``args[2]``).

``static_parameter``
    reference a static parameter by index.

``line``
    line number and file name metadata. Unlike a ``LineNumberNode``, can also
    contain a file name.

``gotoifnot``
    conditional branch. If ``args[1]`` is false, goes to label identified in ``args[2]``.

``=``
    assignment

``method``
    adds a method to a generic function and assigns the result if necessary.

    Has a 1-argument form and a 4-argument form. The 1-argument form arises
    from the syntax ``function foo end``. In the 1-argument form, the
    argument is a symbol. If this symbol already names a function in the
    current scope, nothing happens. If the symbol is undefined, a new function
    is created and assigned to the identifier specified by the symbol.
    If the symbol is defined but names a non-function, an error is raised.
    The definition of "names a function" is that the binding is constant, and
    refers to an object of singleton type. The rationale for this is that an
    instance of a singleton type uniquely identifies the type to add the method
    to. When the type has fields, it wouldn't be clear whether the method was
    being added to the instance or its type.

    The 4-argument form has the following arguments:
    ``args[1]`` - A function name, or ``false`` if unknown. If a symbol,
    then the expression first behaves like the 1-argument form above.
    This argument is ignored from then on.
    When this is ``false``, it means a method is being added strictly by type,
    ``(::T)(x) = x``.

    ``args[2]`` - a ``SimpleVector`` of argument type data. ``args[2][1]`` is
    a ``SimpleVector`` of the argument types, and ``args[2][2]`` is a
    ``SimpleVector`` of type variables corresponding to the method's static
    parameters.

    ``args[3]`` - a ``CodeInfo`` of the method itself. For "out of scope"
    method definitions (adding a method to a function that also has methods defined
    in different scopes) this is an expression that evaluates to a ``:lambda``
    expression.

    ``args[4]`` - ``true`` or ``false``, identifying whether the method is
    staged (``@generated function``)

``const``
    declares a (global) variable as constant

``null``
    has no arguments; simply yields the value ``nothing``

``new``
    allocates a new struct-like object. First argument is the type. The ``new``
    pseudo-function is lowered to this, and the type is always inserted by the
    compiler.  This is very much an internal-only feature, and does no
    checking. Evaluating arbitrary ``new`` expressions can easily segfault.

``return``
    returns its argument as the value of the enclosing function.

``the_exception``
    yields the caught exception inside a ``catch`` block. This is the value of
    the run time system variable ``jl_exception_in_transit``.

``enter``
    enters an exception handler (``setjmp``). ``args[1]`` is the label of the
    catch block to jump to on error.

``leave``
    pop exception handlers. ``args[1]`` is the number of handlers to pop.

``inbounds``
    controls turning bounds checks on or off. A stack is maintained; if the
    first argument of this expression is true or false (``true`` means bounds
    checks are disabled), it is pushed onto the stack. If the first argument is
    ``:pop``, the stack is popped.

``boundscheck``
    indicates the beginning or end of a section of code that performs a bounds
    check. Like ``inbounds``, a stack is maintained, and the second argument
    can be one of: ``true``, ``false``, or ``:pop``.

``copyast``
    part of the implementation of quasi-quote. The argument is a surface syntax
    AST that is simply copied recursively and returned at run time.

``meta``
    metadata. ``args[1]`` is typically a symbol specifying the kind of metadata,
    and the rest of the arguments are free-form. The following kinds of metadata
    are commonly used:

    ``:inline`` and ``:noinline``: Inlining hints.

    ``:push_loc``: enters a sequence of statements from a specified source location.
      - ``args[2]`` specifies a filename, as a symbol.
      - ``args[3]`` optionally specifies the name of an (inlined) function that originally contained the code.

    ``:pop_loc``: returns to the source location before the matching ``:push_loc``.


Method
~~~~~~

A unique'd container describing the shared metadata for a single method.

``name``, ``module``, ``file``, ``line``, ``sig`` - Metadata to uniquely identify the method
    for the computer and the human

``ambig`` - Cache of other methods that may be ambiguous with this one

``specializations`` - Cache of all MethodInstance ever created for this Method,
    used to ensure uniqueness. Uniqueness is required for efficiency,
    especially for incremental precompile and tracking of method invalidation.

``source`` - The original source code (compressed)

``roots`` - Pointers to non-AST things that have been interpolated into the AST,
    required by compression of the AST, type-inference, or the generation of native code.

``nargs``, ``isva``, ``called``, ``isstaged`` - Descriptive bit-fields for the source code of this Method.

``min-world`` / ``max-world`` - The range of world ages for which this method is visible.


MethodInstance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A unique'd container describing a single callable signature for a Method.
See especially :ref:`devdocs-locks` for important details on how to modify these fields safely.

``specTypes`` - The primary key for this MethodInstance.
    Uniqueness is guaranteed through a ``def.specializations`` lookup.

``def`` - The ``Method`` that this function describes a specialization of.
    Or ``#undef``, if this is a top-level Lambda that is not part of a Method.

``sparam_vals`` - The values of the static parameters in specTypes
    indexed by ``def.sparam_syms``. For the ``MethodInstance`` at ``Method.unspecialized``,
    this is the empty ``SimpleVector``. But for a runtime ``MethodInstance`` from the ``MethodTable`` cache,
    this will always be defined and indexable.

``rettype`` - The inferred return type for the ``specFunctionObject`` field,
    which (in most cases) is also the computed return type for the function in general.

``inferred`` - May contain a cache of the inferred source for this function,
    or other information about the inference result such as a constant return value
    may be put here (if ``jlcall_api == 2``), or it could be set to `nothing`
    to just indicate ``rettype`` is inferred

``min-world`` / ``max-world`` - The range of world ages for which this method instance is valid.

``ftpr`` - The generic jlcall entry point

``jlcall_api`` - The ABI to use when calling ``fptr``. Some significant ones include:
    - 0 - Not compiled yet.
    - 1 - JL_CALLABLE ``jl_value_t *(*)(jl_function_t *f, jl_value_t *args[nargs], uint32_t nargs)``
    - 2 - Constant (value stored in ``inferred``)
    - 3 - With Static-parameters forwarded ``jl_value_t *(*)(jl_svec_t *sparams, jl_function_t *f, jl_value_t *args[nargs], uint32_t nargs)``
    - 4 - Run in interpreter ``jl_value_t *(*)(jl_method_instance_t *meth, jl_function_t *f, jl_value_t *args[nargs], uint32_t nargs)``


CodeInfo
~~~~~~~~

A temporary container for holding lowered source code.

``code`` - An ``Any`` array of statements, or a UInt8 array with a compressed representation of the code.

``slotnames`` - An array of symbols giving the name of each slot (argument or local variable).

``slottypes`` - An array of types for the slots.

``slotflags`` - A UInt8 array of slot properties, represented as bit flags:
    - 2  - assigned (only false if there are *no* assignment statements with this var on the left)
    - 8  - const (currently unused for local variables)
    - 16 - statically assigned once
    - 32 - might be used before assigned. This flag is only valid after type inference.

``ssavaluetypes`` - Either an array or an Int.
  If an Int, it gives the number of compiler-inserted temporary locations in the function.
  If an array, specifies a type for each location.

Boolean properties:

``inferred`` - Whether this has been produced by type inference

``inlineable`` - Whether this should be inlined

``propagate_inbounds`` - Whether this should should propagate ``@inbounds`` when inlined
    for the purpose of eliding ``@boundscheck`` blocks

``pure`` - Whether this is known to be a pure function of its arguments,
    without respect to the state of the method caches or other mutable global state


Surface syntax AST
------------------

Front end ASTs consist entirely of ``Expr``\ s and atoms (e.g. symbols, numbers).
There is generally a different expression head for each visually distinct
syntactic form.
Examples will be given in s-expression syntax. Each parenthesized list corresponds
to an Expr, where the first element is the head.
For example ``(call f x)`` corresponds to ``Expr(:call, :f, :x)`` in Julia.

Calls
~~~~~

=======================  ====================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ====================================
``f(x)``                 ``(call f x)``
``f(x, y=1, z=2)``       ``(call f x (kw y 1) (kw z 2))``
``f(x; y=1)``            ``(call f (parameters (kw y 1)) x)``
``f(x...)``              ``(call f (... x))``
=======================  ====================================

``do`` syntax::

    f(x) do a,b
        body
    end

parses as ``(call f (-> (tuple a b) (block body)) x)``.

Operators
~~~~~~~~~

Most uses of operators are just function calls, so they are parsed with the
head ``call``.
However some operators are special forms (not necessarily function calls),
and in those cases the operator itself is the expression head.
In julia-parser.scm these are referred to as "syntactic operators".
Some operators (``+`` and ``*``) use N-ary parsing; chained calls are parsed as
a single N-argument call.
Finally, chains of comparisons have their own special expression structure.

=======================  ====================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ====================================
``x+y``                  ``(call + x y)``
``a+b+c+d``              ``(call + a b c d)``
``2x``                   ``(call * 2 x)``
``a&&b``                 ``(&& a b)``
``x += 1``               ``(+= x 1)``
``a ? 1 : 2``            ``(if a 1 2)``
``a:b``                  ``(: a b)``
``a:b:c``                ``(: a b c)``
``a,b``                  ``(tuple a b)``
``a==b``                 ``(call == a b)``
``1<i<=n``               ``(comparison 1 < i <= n)``
``a.b``                  ``(. a (quote b))``
``a.(b)``                ``(. a b)``
=======================  ====================================

Bracketed forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

==========================  ======================================
Input                       AST
==========================  ======================================
``a[i]``                    ``(ref a i)``
``t[i;j]``                  ``(typed_vcat t i j)``
``t[i j]``                  ``(typed_hcat t i j)``
``t[a b; c d]``             ``(typed_vcat t (row a b) (row c d))``
``a{b}``                    ``(curly a b)``
``a{b;c}``                  ``(curly a (parameters c) b)``
``[x]``                     ``(vect x)``
``[x,y]``                   ``(vect x y)``
``[x;y]``                   ``(vcat x y)``
``[x y]``                   ``(hcat x y)``
``[x y; z t]``              ``(vcat (row x y) (row z t))``
``[x for y in z, a in b]``  ``(comprehension x (= y z) (= a b))``
``T[x for y in z]``         ``(typed_comprehension T x (= y z))``
``(a, b, c)``               ``(tuple a b c)``
``(a; b; c)``               ``(block a (block b c))``
==========================  ======================================

Macros
~~~~~~

=======================  =======================================
Input                    AST
=======================  =======================================
``@m x y``               ``(macrocall @m x y)``
``Base.@m x y``          ``(macrocall (. Base (quote @m)) x y)``
``@Base.m x y``          ``(macrocall (. Base (quote @m)) x y)``
=======================  =======================================

Strings
~~~~~~~

=======================  ====================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ====================================
``"a"``                  ``"a"``
``x"y"``                 ``(macrocall @x_str "y")``
``x"y"z``                ``(macrocall @x_str "y" "z")``
``"x = $x"``             ``(string "x = " x)``
```a b c```              ``(macrocall @cmd "a b c")``
``x ~ distr``            ``(macrocall @~ x distr)``
=======================  ====================================

Doc string syntax::

    "some docs"
    f(x) = x

parses as ``(macrocall (|.| Core '@doc) "some docs" (= (call f x) (block x)))``.

Imports and such
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

=======================  ==============================================
Input                    AST
=======================  ==============================================
``import a``             ``(import a)``
``import a.b.c``         ``(import a b c)``
``import ...a``          ``(import . . . a)``
``import a.b, c.d``      ``(toplevel (import a b) (import c d))``
``import Base: x``       ``(import Base x)``
``import Base: x, y``    ``(toplevel (import Base x) (import Base y))``
``export a, b``          ``(export a b)``
=======================  ==============================================

Numbers
~~~~~~~

Julia supports more number types than many scheme implementations,
so not all numbers are represented directly as scheme numbers in the AST.

=========================  ==================================================
Input                      AST
=========================  ==================================================
``11111111111111111111``   ``(macrocall @int128_str "11111111111111111111")``
``0xfffffffffffffffff``    ``(macrocall @uint128_str "0xfffffffffffffffff")``
``1111...many digits...``  ``(macrocall @big_str "1111....")``
=========================  ==================================================

Block forms
~~~~~~~~~~~

A block of statements is parsed as ``(block stmt1 stmt2 ...)``.

If statement::

    if a
        b
    elseif c
        d
    else e
        f
    end

parses as::

    (if a (block (line 2) b)
        (block (line 3) (if c (block (line 4) d)
                            (block (line 5) e (line 6) f))))

A ``while`` loop parses as ``(while condition body)``.

A ``for`` loop parses as ``(for (= var iter) body)``.
If there is more than one iteration specification, they are parsed as a block:
``(for (block (= v1 iter1) (= v2 iter2)) body)``.

``break`` and ``continue`` are parsed as 0-argument expressions
``(break)`` and ``(continue)``.

``let`` is parsed as ``(let body (= var1 val1) (= var2 val2) ...)``.

A basic function definition is parsed as ``(function (call f x) body)``.
A more complex example::

    function f{T}(x::T; k = 1)
        return x+1
    end

parses as::

    (function (call (curly f T) (parameters (kw k 1))
                    (:: x T))
              (block (line 2 file.jl) (return (call + x 1))))

Type definition::

    type Foo{T<:S}
        x::T
    end

parses as::

    (type #t (curly Foo (<: T S))
          (block (line 2 none) (:: x T)))

The first argument is a boolean telling whether the type is mutable.

``try`` blocks parse as ``(try try_block var catch_block finally_block)``.
If no variable is present after ``catch``, ``var`` is ``#f``.
If there is no ``finally`` clause, then the last argument is not present.
